Title: The AI Agent That Doesn't Break Production Code
Source: https://youtu.be/CMYhZMtPI_E
Video ID: CMYhZMtPI_E
----

Everybody wants your AI to generate
faultless productionready code. But the
reality is that code breaks weeks later
and nobody knows anymore why the AI
agent made certain decisions to create
features in a specific way. In this
video, I'm going to solve that problem
for you by showing you how you can
create a self-documenting AI agent that
won't just create features, but also
explains the decisions it made around
how to actually develop the features
themselves so that later on you can fix
any issues that will arise in
production. To prove that this works,
I'm going to be adding a new feature to
my production grade application. In this
video, we're not going to be working
with some dummy to-do list project. No,
we're going to be working on a real code
repository. So, let's get into it. We're
going to be adding a caching feature to
this AI engineering tutor app, which is
an application that you can use to learn
AI engineering faster. You might have a
question like the following. What is the
best first step to get started when I
want to learn AI engineering? Now it
takes some time to generate the answer
because first the system has to find
relevant YouTube videos to use for the
answer and then of course it also has to
invoke an AI model to generate the
answer itself. Sometimes it's fine that
this answer takes a long time to
generate. But when users have very
similar questions like how to get
started, what the best programming
languages are for AI engineering
questions like that, you really want to
just cache those answers, right? Because
the questions are all pretty similar to
each other and that way the users do not
have to wait for the AI model to
respond. because I've been talking for
20 seconds now and only now the answer
is fully done and generated. And you can
see that there are some examples for
technologies that you can use like fast
API and a couple of YouTube video
sources. Where do we actually get
started with this caching feature? Well,
I've actually already prepared a PRD, a
product requirement document for this
video. If we check out my GitHub, you
can actually see that I've got this
issue here, semantic FAQ caching, and I
actually have described how I roughly
want this to work. Basically what I want
to do is I want to match similar
questions and if a question is a match
with an answer that has been cached then
I want to actually return that in you
know 100 milliseconds instead of two to
3 seconds or even longer if you count
all the processing time from the
language model. So how am I going to
achieve that? Well there is actually a
little bit of a technical implementation
in this pd as well. If we scroll down
here, you can see that eventually it's
actually going to note that we want to
do the basic semantic caching with
Reddis. And Reddis actually allows for
vector search as well nowadays, which is
how I can actually make sure that the
questions are relevant to each other.
And to achieve that, what I'm actually
going to be doing is also letting the AI
model know that they can actually check
out this web page for more information
about how vector search is actually
implemented in Reddus. And this is a
little bit of context engineering,
right? You want to make sure that you
don't just instruct the AML on what to
do, but that it has the right
documentation to also read and
understand how to do the implementation
at a technical level. So, with that
being said, I'm going to open Cloud Code
and get it to implement this feature.
While it does that, I'm going to show
you how I'm going to make the agent
self-document its progress. So, we're
going to go ahead and check out Visual
Studio Code. And now what I'm going to
do is I'm simply going to type fetch
issue one and implement it carefully.
The reason I can just refer to issue one
is because I've connected claw to my
GitHub MCP server. So it's actually able
to read information from a repository
including all of the issues. So you can
indeed see that it's now trying to get
the issue details. I'm just going to go
ahead and proceed with that. And now you
will actually see that it retrieves all
the issue details. And you will see that
it now starts to create a to-do list
already. And all of that is going to be
based on the issue description which is
basically our product requirement
document. So indeed you now see that it
first starts to analyze existing
codebase setup reddus etc. But the
actual implementation of this feature is
not really what you came here for right
it's just a means to show that this
agent is going to self-document how it
approach the implementation. So how do I
actually make this agent self-document?
Well, for that I actually set up a
claude command. Now, if you don't use
cloud code, there's no need to worry. In
the end, this is just a collection of
prompts that work together. So, you can
even use this in other AI agents like
GitHub copilot, for example. What we're
going to be doing in this autod document
agent command is that it's going to run
git diff main to understand what the AI
agent has actually implemented compared
to the current production branch. This
is a great way to actually make sure
that all of the context is provided to
the AI agent instead of manually asking
it to just review the changes. By
running a terminal command like this,
you will ensure that the full context is
pushed into the AI model. From there,
what it needs to do is read the complete
diff output and then create a to-do list
of functions that it might want to
investigate further. And next to that,
it needs to actually decide whether it
should create an architecture decision
record. And this is where the auto
documentation piece comes into. It's not
about writing comments in the files. You
can just do that by instructing the AI
model. It's about creating a separate
documentation markdown file that
contains more information about why
specific decisions were made. In this
case, for example, why reddis was
configured in a particular way to
support the requirements from the issue.
We can actually have a look at the
template that's going to be used for
this ADR document. So, if I check out
the ADR template markdown file here, you
can see that I've got a pretty simple
template and all of this will be
referenced in a link in the description
below and you can customize it to your
needs, right? Maybe your team already
has an ADR template that suits your
needs more. In my case, you know,
there's just a decision that's made,
technical approach, key components, etc.
Now, in my case, I actually really like
creating this ADR in the same pull
request in which I implement the feature
itself. Some people might want to write
the architectural decision record before
they even get started on the code, but
generally I find that decisions made in
an ADR do slightly change once you
actually get to implementing the code
itself. So I prefer that the AI code
agent will write the ADR after the code
has been implemented but before it's
actually been approved and pushed into
production. And that is the key, right?
If you have the ADR together with the
code, then three weeks later, if
something might have broken due to the
AI code, someone can actually easily
understand why decisions were made and
fix up any problems. And while it's
working on this feature, I just wanted
to let you know that these kinds of real
AI coding practices that generally work
in the real world and aren't just hype
are things that I teach in my AI
engineering community, together with all
of the access to applications like the
AI tutor that allow you to learn AI
engineering concepts much faster. So if
you want to check that out, you should
definitely go to the description after
this video. But for now, let's wait
until Claude is done and then see how
far along we are with the Reddus
implementation.
So we can actually see that Claude is
starting to wrap up now. And if we check
out all of the changed files, you can
see that it's added quite a lot. So it's
actually updated some readme
documentation already. Now that's not
the same as writing an ADR, but you do
see that Claude is documenting some
basics here already, like adding Reddis
as a potential storage mechanism. Then
of course we also have a couple of
changes to our environment variables
where now the reddis configuration is
actually added in our example
environments file. So I'm going to go
ahead and add that to my real
environment file in just a bit. Next to
that we also have changes in different
Python files. And I think a very
important part to check out is going to
be the chat service here because that's
actually where we're going to call the
reddis cache. So for example, it gets
initialized in here and then if we keep
scrolling down, we can actually see that
a new step has been added. So we have
got a couple of steps to handle a user
request. We enhance the query, we
generate embedding for the query. But
then this new step three is actually
that we first check the semantic cache
for similar questions. This step was
different before because before we just
immediately retrieved the relevant
YouTube videos using vector search. So
now we first actually check the semantic
cache to see if a similar question has
been answered. So you can see in here
that it will actually yield a couple of
things from the cached answer. It will
yield the answer itself and then of
course the metadata as well because we
do actually ideally want to display the
sources in the frontend UI. Now one
particular thing here that I'm seeing is
that the sources themselves are actually
not being returned at the moment. So
that is something I would definitely
want to implement in a second iteration.
For now, let's focus on making sure that
the answer itself is returned very
quickly and then you can actually see
that it will return and exit early if
there is a cache hit. Now, of course,
there is more code to explore, but the
point of this video is more to show the
auto documentation process. So, what I'm
going to do is I'm going to start
locally and then check out whether or
not this new feature even works. And
afterwards, we're going to automatically
generate all of the ADR documentation
that we need to make sure that this code
will actually work and stay functional
in production. So in the readme I can
see that if I scroll down I actually
have to start up reddis locally with
docker compose. Probably want to do that
automatically later on but for now I'm
okay with doing that manually. And then
you will actually see that it will need
to download and pull the reddis
container. And while that's being done
I'm going to be editing my environment
variables to add these values. I'll be
right back because I don't want you to
see my secrets. So I've started reddis
and I've edited my environment variables
file. Now, what I'm going to do is I'm
going to make sure that the back end is
actually fully restarted just to make
sure that everything will work as
intended. Oh, and of course, I actually
have not installed the new Reddus
dependency. So, I'm going to go ahead
and do that as well. If I check out ls,
you can see that in this file, I have a
requirements file. So, I can simply do
pip install-r
requirements.txt. And this way, the new
Reddus package will be installed because
we of course need that to communicate
with a Reddus instance, right? So, now
I'm going to go ahead and run the server
file again. Now, initially actually
Reddis didn't want to start. You can
actually see that it failed to connect
here locally. And that's because this
concurrent ride mode parameter doesn't
even really seem to be a valid
parameter. And I know this because if I
check docker desktop, you can see that
this is not a valid option. So, it seems
like the AI model has just hallucinated
that. And this is proof that everyone
showing you that these AI agents can
code up a real application in 5 seconds.
They're probably lying to you. It's much
more complex than that. And you do need
to actually check what the AI model is
doing. So because I know what I'm doing,
I can actually fix this issue. I can go
ahead and remove this. And then what I'm
going to do now is I'm actually just
going to restart the back end, but only
after I restarted the container. And now
what I can do is I can go back and just
restart the Reddus container. And then
let's check if it's properly running.
And now you can actually see that it's
properly running. So that's fine. And
now you can see that the cache has been
initialized. But we still have to see
whether this actually works. It seems
I've created the vector search index. So
let's go ahead and go back to our
application and ask a question. And then
I'm going to go ahead and ask the same
question again. Now I'm going to open up
my network tab here on the right just so
you can see if the network request
actually becomes faster because of the
caching. So I'm going to go ahead and
first submit this regular request. Of
course, we don't have anything in the
cache yet. So this is definitely going
to take a while to complete. And you can
indeed see that this took over 17
seconds to fully resolve. Now let's go
ahead and actually refresh this page.
and ask the exact same question again.
Bang. Whoa. It's actually already done.
I don't have to show you the network
request for you to understand that that
was much faster. Right now, again, if we
scroll down, the sources are actually
missing here. That's something I want to
implement for a second version, but the
actual caching mechanism seems to work
pretty well. I do want to test one more
case though because I literally ask the
exact same question. I do want it to
actually still trigger the cache
mechanism when the question is very
similar, but maybe worded slightly
differently. For example, if I fully
refresh the page now, I can slightly
change the language here and say
something like, what is the most
important first step to get started when
I want to learn AI engineering? And now
you see that it still matches. Now, just
to test one more case, let's ask a
completely different question and ensure
that it's not going to return the cached
answer, but actually starts thinking
again. So, for example, I can ask, what
is the most important principle when AI
coding? And now you will actually see
that it's starting to think about this
answer for a longer time and it actually
starts to stream in the answer because
it's not been cached yet. So now we've
kind of tested the caching mechanism end
to end. But of course you're here for
the autodocumenting agent. So now that
we've properly implemented an initial
version of a feature, let's see how
clock code will create an ADR based on
the command that I shared earlier in the
video. All right, we're back in Visual
Studio Code. And what I'm going to do
now is simply press slash and then
actually use this autod document agent
command which I've defined once again in
this markdown file. So all I have to do
is press enter. And now it understands
that it first needs to run a git command
to understand all the different changes
that it's made. And you can indeed see
that there are over 400 lines of git
differences between this branch and the
latest code that's actually running in
production. And now it has a good idea
of the wall reddis implementation. You
can indeed see here that it's actually
going to read some extra files to get an
even better idea of what's going on.
It's even going to read one of the test
scripts to understand what some common
use cases for this caching mechanism
might be. And then at the very end, it's
going to analyze if it's a significant
architectural change that even requires
an ADR because small changes like some
front-end changes don't really need an
ADR, right? that can introduce bugs, but
it's not going to completely break your
system most of the time when you have
small little front-end bugs. But in this
case, we're adding a caching layer, a
really intrusive backend operation that
could completely break my application.
So in this case, the AI model should
indicate that an ADR is necessary and
then continue from there.
I'll sit back and relax for a second and
I'll wait until the clot has made a
decision on whether it should write an
ADR.
So now you can see that indeed this is a
significant architectural change and now
it's actually added one extra to-do.
It's going to create the architecture
decision record for semantic caching and
it's going to create a new ADR docs
folder because I haven't created that in
this repo yet. Totally fine with that.
Let's go ahead and proceed. And it will
now actually go ahead and read the
architecture decision record template
and start creating the record. And you
can now see that it's created in ADR.
I'm going to allow it to create the
decision record. And now you will be
able to see in the docs folder that we
have the semantic caching markdown file.
Now let's see if it actually matches the
ADR template in terms of structure. We
indeed start with the status. We have
context decision and we've got the
technical approach key components
consequences positive to negative. We
also have a couple of alternatives. So
in this case it actually comes up with a
couple of alternatives that make sense
in the context of the repo. You could do
simple stringbased caching. The
difficulty is, as I said before, you're
not going to match questions that are
asked in a slightly different way. You
could also actually do some caching in
Cosmos DB, which is the database that I
use for other operations in the
application. But as it says in the cons,
you know, it's got a higher latency than
Reddus. It's more expensive for frequent
caching reads. And you know, Conor DB is
not really meant to be a cache. That is
really the job of a system like Reddus.
So here too you understand better what
the alternatives could have been for the
implementation and why reddis was still
chosen by the AI model in the end. Now
of course in my case the PRD already
pushed the AI model a little bit into
the reddis side of things but in case
your PRD doesn't contain any technical
details this is especially handy because
you get a bit of a better idea of the
alternatives and why the model might
have made a specific decision on
actually using something like Reddus in
the end. Now, if you scroll all the way
to the top, you will see that the status
is just accepted right now. And that is
because as an engineer, I'm going to be
pushing this AVR and creating a pull
request out of all of the code here.
Now, of course, based on your repository
and your workflow, you can actually set
this status to propose or anything else
that works for you. It's all
customizable because it's just a simple
prompt that you can change. In my case,
I'm actually quite happy with this. So,
I'm going to go ahead and ask Claude to
commit all of my files. The great thing
is again because I've got that GitHub
MCP integration, I can ask it to create
commits and then even create a pull
request out of everything. So that's
what I'm going to do to just wrap up
this wall concept and system nicely. So
what I'm going to do is I'm going to say
please commit all changes and create a
PR. You can now see that it's starting
to use git commands to add all of the
files that have been changed for this
radus implementation. And then it's
going to go ahead and push that in just
a little while.
Now we're actually going to push those
changes to my branch. And now we're even
going to be creating a pull request,
which is very cool that I can do this
automatically with my AI agent because
of that GitHub MCP server. Right.
Interestingly enough, it actually
decided to use the GitHub CLI because
I've also got that installed. But just
to make sure it actually pushes to the
right repo, I am going to ask it to use
the MCP server instead. Please use the
MCP server instead.
It's interesting. You can see here that
these AI agents have different ways to
reach the same destination, right? So in
my case, I just want to use that MCP
server. And now you can indeed see that
it's going to use that GitHub open new
pull request tool call. So let's go
ahead and actually just create the pull
request. And then I'm going to go ahead
to my browser and show you that the pull
request was created pretty much right
now. I'm going to go and scroll up, go
to pull requests, and you will see that
we actually have this new feature, add
semantic FAQ caching with Reddist stack,
and we've got those three different
commits with all of the changed files.
And because we have this very nice
architecture decision record, if an
engineer reads this code four weeks in
because there's a small bug with this AI
code, then that's not a problem at all.
It can easily pick up and fix whatever
is needed. I'm confident that you now
see that you need to do way more than
just vibe code your way to production
when you're using AI to generate code.
If you want to become a real AI native
engineer, you should subscribe to the
channel and check out my AI native
engineering community in the link in the
description below. I hope to see you
