Title: Learn Faster with an AI Knowledge Graph in Obsidian
Source: https://youtu.be/dBebGUgiz34
Video ID: dBebGUgiz34
----

I'm going to show you my Obsidian
knowledge graph, a second brain that I
use to learn AI concepts faster and
become a much better engineer. I will
teach you how you can create this
yourself with your own data so you can
become more effective and grow faster.
So, how does this knowledge graph work
and what's actually the point? Well, I
of course run a YouTube channel with
many different videos and all of these
videos contain interesting insights that
I've learned myself in my professional
journey as an AI engineer. So, what I've
done is I've taken all of the
transcripts for the different videos and
I've put them into a specific folder
that allows an AI system to ingest those
transcripts and extract basically all of
the interesting structured information.
So, let's say that I want to understand
what concepts I actually discussed in
this Git workflow video so I can maybe
create a follow-up video on it. Well, I
can simply click on a video here. And
what I'm going to do is I'm going to
copy the video ID because I've made it
so that this knowledge graph is easily
retrievable and searchable by an AI
system. Because everything is ID based,
that means that I can actually ask an AI
system to check all the video IDs on my
channel, for example, using an MCP
server and it's able to pull all of that
information in and search throughout all
of my videos inside of this knowledge
graph. To prove that, I'm just going to
paste that video ID and you will see
that now this video shows up as one of
the only nodes AI native kit versioning.
What I can do now is right click on it
and then I can actually go ahead and
open the local graph for this video.
When I open the local graph, you can
actually see that it's connected to
multiple concepts. It's connected to AI
agents. It's connected to Python. It's
also connected of course to Git. And
these are the concepts that the AI
assistant that I've used to create this
knowledge graph has extracted from the
transcript of this video. So now I can
just continue exploring my second brain
and understand what ideas I've actually
generated and explained about git
version control in the past. So I can
simply click on this node and then it
opens up all of the related nodes to
git. So again we can see a lot of
interesting things here. We can see that
AI native kit versioning node again, but
we can also see AI coding systems,
structured AI coding workflow, and we
can see much more that will actually
lead me down a great thought pattern for
creating a follow-up version. For
example, I can actually go ahead and
click into AI coding systems. Here you
can see that Gemini CLI is one of my
concepts, and I've not really created a
video with Gemini in a while. So, it
could be interesting to create a
follow-up video of that Git workflow and
then actually explore how well it works
using Gemini. This shows you how useful
the knowledge graph can be for me when
I'm coming up with new content ideas
because I don't want to repeat what's
already been created in previous videos,
right? I want to give you all new videos
with new insights and I can basically
combine different parts of videos that
I've created in the past to create a new
useful informative video from that point
forward. So, how can you actually create
a knowledge graph like this yourself? I
just switched my window to Visual Studio
Code because I actually modify my vault
using my code editor. The reason for
this is that Obsidian works at very
simple markdown files which can be
easily modified by AI code agents that
live inside of your editor. Whether
you're using something like Gemini,
Cloud Code, Git Copilot, Codeex, it
doesn't matter. All of these tools are
really good at handling the markdown
format that Obsidian uses. To showcase
that, I just wanted to share what my
vault items look like when you look at
the actual markdown file. So, let's go
ahead and explore that example I gave
before with Gemini. If I search for
Gemini, you will see we actually have a
Gemini CLI markdown file and there's a
lot of structured information in here.
You can see that it's tied technology.
It's in a specific category and most
importantly, it's linked to many other
nodes. For example, it's linked to that
AI coding systems hub that we actually
saw in the Obsidian graph. And this is
using the square bracket notation that
Obsidian uses to actually link this
specific markdown file with AI coding
systems. And the nice thing about this
is that it's very easy for you to see in
here how many nodes this Gemini CLI
markdown file is actually already
connected with. And the great part about
this markdown file is that I'm able to
add a lot of arbitrary details about
Gemini CLI, including my opinions and
views on how to use it. Right? So, for
example, here you can see that there's a
definition that's not in the graph
itself, but can be explored by an AI
agent if you ask it to actually check
the contents of each individual node. To
show that, I actually wanted to show
another file that's at the root of my
folder, agents.nd. This is a markdown
file that's automatically read by a lot
of AI coding tools, and you can just add
it to the context whenever you want. And
this file actually describes how my
Obsidian vault is structured. Basically,
it refers to this vault structure
overview markdown file. And we can
actually find this under agents. And
there it is, vault structure overview.
Going to open up that document here on
the right because it shows you that I
actually create multiple folders inside
of my Obsidian vault, each with their
own purpose. Now, the main folders I
wanted to discuss are these four that
can be found in the resources folder.
Hubs, concepts, technologies, and
process transcripts. Really, hubs,
concepts, technologies. These are the
main nodes that you see in the Obsidian
graph. Hubs are big nodes that connect
to many different concepts. And
concepts, well, I can show you what it
means if I just open the folder. These
are really important concepts that are
actually recurring throughout a lot of
my videos and the things that I teach.
For example, AI cost management, AI
agent extensibility, and there's a lot
of concepts here that go through
different parts of AI engineering. for
example, dockerized LLM deployment as
well as things like fast API, right? One
of the main Python frameworks for
building solid LLM APIs. So this just
shows you that we have a lot of
different concepts that we kind of
distribute among these different levels.
So the highest level concept is a hub,
lower level is concept, but then we also
have technologies. If I just collapse
this folder here and I open
technologies, you will see that these
are very specific technologies like claw
desktop client Gemini CLI and there we
go. If I open Gemini CLI again, you can
see that this is kind of how it works,
right? We have a link to a hub, we have
a link to multiple different concepts
and in the end it all comes down to a
technology. in this case, Gemini CLI.
And now the question really is, how does
the AI system actually know how to
process these transcripts and create
these different nodes? Well, for that, I
actually have a big system prompt inside
of the agents folder here. I have what I
call a transcript processing agent. And
this is a very extensive system prompt
that would probably take me half an hour
to fully explain. So, I'm going to keep
it simple and just let you know that
this system prompt gives the AI agent
all the context that it needs to
actually connect the transcript to new
or existing nodes and put everything in
the right folders while following a
specific structure for each and every
markdown file, which is super important,
right? Because if I go back to the
Gemini folder, you can see here that it
very consistently has this syntax at the
top that describes what kind of node it
is and what hubs it's linked to. And you
will see that this is very consistent no
matter what file I open. So I can also
go to technologies and open up a
completely different random file. Let's
go for local AI. And you can see it
follows that same pattern. It has an
open definition that I can actually
change myself and I can add more text to
it. But what's most important is that
all of the linking to the different
nodes is super consistent. So here too
we see the linked hubs and we see all of
the different concepts. And that is how
you get such a clean obsidian graph that
I showed you at the beginning of the
video. But I can talk about these
prompts all day long. I think it's much
more powerful if we go ahead and run one
of these prompts on a new video. So you
can see live what happens when I ingest
new content. So basically what I'm going
to do is I'm going to go ahead and open
up codeex. You can use any AI coding
agent you want, but Codeex is just
something I've used for this project.
And what I'm going to do now is I'm
going to say execute the prompt. And I'm
going to paste this prompt in here with
the transcript. And then you might be
wondering, well, what transcript are we
going to use? Well, actually, we have a
transcript ready to go here and is
transcript to process folder. That's why
it's green. So, I'm going to go ahead
and paste that reference in there and
then press enter. So, while we're
waiting for codeex to process all of
this, I wanted to let you know what
prerequisites there are when you're
trying to do this yourself. When you're
trying to create a knowledge graph of
your own brain, right? Well, there's two
prerequisites. First of all, it's having
these really good system prompts that
actually direct the AI agents to process
the information properly. I'm helping
you with that because I am going to
share these prompts with you later in
the video. But the second prerequisite
is something that you are going to have
to do yourself. You do need some
interesting input data in the first
place. In my case, I have all of those
YouTube transcripts. But what if you
don't have a YouTube channel? Well,
there's no need to worry because almost
everyone has some interesting input data
for these knowledge graphs. If you are
already taking notes in Obsidian, notion
or a different platform, then this is a
great way to ingest all of those nodes
and create a knowledge graph out of it.
If you're not taking any notes, there's
no need to worry because you probably
have some code projects lying around,
right? You can actually also create a
prompt that directs the AA agent to scan
one of your repositories and then
extracts all of the interesting concepts
from there. All right, it seems like
Codex is done. Let's see what it did. Of
course, there's this whole plan that it
executed, but because I'm using git in
this folder, I can actually very easily
see what changes it made. So, we can
simply go to my branch here, and you can
see that a couple changes were made. So,
first of all, it seems like we actually
have a new technology, cloud code. So,
indeed, cloud code is added as a concept
as well as openi codeex, but there's
something a little bit weird about this.
For some reason, it stylized it with
code X with like a capital X at the end.
That is not what I want. But I'm kind of
glad it made that mistake because I can
show you that by actually mastering your
code editor. It's very easy to correct
this kind of thing because what I
actually can do here is if I just go to
search, I can find all references where
codeex is stylized like this. All I have
to do in this case is I can just mass
replace all of it like so. And then one
thing that I do need to do is I also
have to change the file name here
because you know I do actually want to
make sure that that's consistent here.
So other than that it looks quite good
to me. You can see here that OpenAI
codeex refers to a couple of hubs. It
refers to other integration patterns.
But to show that it actually immediately
updates the real Obsidian graph, let's
switch back to Obsidian. And then of
course what I can do is I can search for
OpenAI codeex in the main graph. So
let's go ahead and do that. I'm going to
open the main graph again. Going to get
rid of my filters. Whoops. There we go.
And then once I get rid of my filters, I
can see the full graph again. And now
let's go ahead and search for OpenAI
codeex like so. And you can see here
actually that if we zoom in open Icodex
is present and we can indeed see all of
those connections to the different nodes
and able to just continue and explore my
knowledge graph. So I can go to AI
coding systems and then I can actually
just see the specific markdown file
here. I can browse like that and I'm
actually able to explore this graph in
two different ways. I can of course just
keep clicking through all of these
concepts and explore the markdown files.
But you can also explore the graph view.
So if I go back and actually show you
the graph view again of the OpenAI
codeex node, I could then actually go
ahead and rightclick here, go to open
link view, click on open local graph,
and then I can just keep going and
checking out the graph view instead. So
it really depends on what information
you're looking for, but you can do it in
either way. Or you can of course ask
codeex to explore the vault for you to
find specific references. So, this gives
you a good idea of what it takes to
create a knowledge graph to actually
keep track of everything that's in your
head and be able to search through all
of that information very effectively. If
you want to create a graph like this for
yourself, you can check out the prompts
that I use for my knowledge graph
completely for free in the link in the
description below. You will have to
adapt it for your own use case, but you
will find that once you take the effort
and time to do so, this is a great and
effective way to create a second brain.
So, let me know in the comments down
below how it went for you. And then I'll
see you next
