Title: The Truth Behind Real AI Automations
Source: https://youtu.be/fbevy5gWDes
Video ID: fbevy5gWDes
----

Gurus are promising that you can automate 
everything with AI, generate hundreds of blogs,
get thousands of leads for your business, or even 
make millions by automating video creation. But
be honest with me, do you really believe it's 
that simple? Most of these AI workflows lie
to you by making you think that the value is in 
the n8n automation or the AI agent orchestrating
everything. But the real value of these workflows 
actually lies in the input data. Without good
input data, these workflows just generate garbage 
that nobody will read and nobody will actually
convert to whatever you're trying to sell or 
whatever you're trying to produce. Without good
input data, you're going to get nowhere. And that 
is a secret that these gurus don't teach you. So,
in this video, I'm going to show you what my 
workflow looks like for generating highquality
blogs for my YouTube videos and how bad the output 
is if I take those YouTube videos away and just
generate random blogs without any good input 
data. And by watching this video, you can learn
how you can automate something that's actually 
valuable instead of spamming people with garbage
that nobody will read or respond to. So, let's 
get into it. So, this is my edit automation,
and it's actually fairly simple. Whenever a new 
page is added to my YouTube videos database,
if that page is not processed yet, I actually 
call this AI model to create a blog post based
on the YouTube transcript and other attributes 
that we'll get into later. And then it actually
creates a file in my GitHub repository because 
my blog is hosted on a code platform and then
that automatically then gets pushed into the live 
website of course. Then I just update the database
page to say that the blog has been processed and 
that's really it. So let's look at an example
result that is coming from this workflow on 
my website. I've got many blog articles that
are based on my YouTube videos like this one. 
I have a very successful video on my AI coding
framework that people have used to code with 
AI successfully and this is kind of a blog post
version of that where it describes the framework 
in quite some detail. So the framework basically
consists of splitting up tasks for the AI model, 
making it think before it actually starts coding
and then implementing your features incrementally 
instead of asking it to do everything at once. And
everything that you see in this blog article 
is actually coming from that YouTube video.
And that is a big differentiator. I'm really 
publishing these blog posts on my personal name.
So why would I want a random AI model to write a 
lowquality blog post? I want the blog post to be
based on my YouTube video. And so if you read this 
blog post and then watch the full YouTube video,
it actually has synergy because the content is 
actually about that YouTube video. And that's
why this automation works so well because people 
might find my blog and don't know about my YouTube
channel yet and then they will flow right into 
the YouTube video. Well, they will realize, okay,
this is actually high quality content. And this is 
a great automation because I respect both myself
because I save time for having to write these 
blog posts, but I also respect you, the viewer or
reader, because these blog posts are actual high 
quality. They provide good insights and you can
just go and watch the full YouTube video to learn 
more. And to prove that this actually works, let's
go ahead and add a new row to this notion database 
which is based on my latest YouTube video. To do
this, I'm actually going to open cloud desktop 
because I have an AI operating system that's
basically connected to my YouTube channel through 
MCP server. So what I can do here is simply say
retrieve my latest YouTube video and ingest it 
for blog creation. And then I'm going to select a
very powerful model and run it like so. And Claude 
is actually able to retrieve transcripts from my
YouTube channel, push information to the notion 
database, and so it's actually going to fill in
that notion page for me. You can see here that at 
the time of recording this video, my last video
was about using three AI code agents at once. And 
you can indeed see that it's now going to retrieve
the entire transcript for that video. And from 
there, it's going to summarize the transcript,
provide more metadata, and then eventually 
create that page in a notion database. So,
here we go. It's downloading the transcript. And 
now you can indeed see that the response is a big
wall of text. If I keep scrolling here, you can 
see it's a huge transcript because this video was
like 20 minutes long. And this already shows you 
this is high quality data. So the blog output is
going to be pretty good quality as well. And now 
you can indeed see that it's already created a
first entry. It actually creates multiple entries 
because it wants to create multiple blog posts
with slightly different angles. But we can already 
go back into notion and see if it indeed actually
added that page. Oh, and you can indeed see we've 
got two new rows here. one about a AI coding
reality check. So this is actually quite accurate 
because in a video I actually use multiple AI
agents at once but I still needed to be the human 
orchestrator to make everything work and actually
make progress in my coding project. And then the 
second topic is actually about creating master
prompts for orchestrating all of these AI coding 
agents. And all of that indeed comes from the
actual video content which is great. And you can 
see here that for example these two have different
hooks and they have different key insights. Again, 
coming from my own real expertise. This is novel
data and not some random input that you get when 
you connect an AI agent to a web search. This is
expert information that will actually lead to a 
high quality blog. So now, if we go to n8n, we
should see that it's starting to trigger on some 
of these rows. In n8n, I'm going to go ahead and
just check if this has been run. So, we're going 
to go to the executions here. And you can indeed
see that now one of these is actually running. So, 
this one's running for 18 seconds. 19 20. Here we
go. And then you should see that in a minute or 
so, this one is actually finished. It will take
a little bit of time, of course, to generate the 
block article, but here we go. In just 28 seconds,
you can see that it's gone through the entire 
flow. So, what has it actually done? Well,
it's gone through the AI agent with a given system 
prompt. This is quite a large prompt that I'll
actually share in a comment because, you know, 
I actually think again that the prompt itself is
not super valuable because it only works if you 
have good input data. And at the very end of the
prompt, you can see that I'm basically adding 
all of that information that is retrieved from
the YouTube video. And then you get this big 
output which is basically our blog post. Now,
I'm going to show you the blog post in a bit more 
of a readable format in a little bit because when
we go to the canvas, you can see that it actually 
creates a file in GitHub. So we can actually
preview the blog in my GitHub repository before it 
actually goes live on the website. So I'm going to
browse to my GitHub repository now. And you can 
see that the autob block has had recent pushes 2
seconds ago. So I can actually go and compare 
the changes to see the created blog post. And
let's go ahead and open this one here. Now this 
is a markdown format because that's just how
my website works. But I can just click on view 
file and I can see the actual text content. So,
you can indeed see that this blog post actually 
starts out by saying that making AI agents work
together requires 48 iterations of a single 
prompt. And this is true. In my video, I showed
you that it took me a long time to make multiple 
AI agents work together for coding purposes. This
already indicates to you without you having to 
read this whole blog that this is an actual blog
that's based on my expertise and my content. So, 
it's highly valuable. And everything that you see
in this blog from indeed the strategic file 
ownership and role distribution to how these
agents should communicate is something that's 
coming from my own knowledge and my experience.
So if people have any questions about this blog 
article, they know that I'm the expert that can
actually answer their questions. Now, let's see 
how bad the output of this automation actually is
if I don't provide this YouTube video content 
at all and I just ask it to generate a random
blog about coding with multiple AI agents. Now, 
what we're going to do is we're going to add a
manual page to my notion database. And I'm not 
going to fill in as many details because this
is usually what happens when people create these 
automations. They work on the automation itself,
but then they don't work in the input data. 
And maybe they even let the AI model generate
the input data for them. So what you're going to 
get is something like this. If we talk about the
same topic, you might have something like using 
multiple AI agents at the same time. And then
we have the content type blog post with the hook 
being something like using multiple AI agents for
vibe coding is a brilliant idea. And then we'll 
give this a little markdown file name AI agent
multiplication markdown. And we will just set 
the status to processing. Now, you can see here
that multiple columns are missing. For example, 
we're missing the key insights, the SEO keywords,
and the summary of the transcript because hey, 
I'm not passing my YouTube video this time. You
might be thinking, can I not fill in these columns 
with an AI model that has access to web search,
for example? Maybe. But guess what? Guess how 
many people are actually doing the same thing
as you? Guess how many blogs like that with 
completely average insights are being published
on a daily basis. If you rely on an AI for the 
automation itself as well as the input data,
you're going to get something that's completely 
average. Because you have to know this about AI,
AI models are statistical models. So 
if you don't provide right input data,
then the output from these models is just going 
to be completely average. And it's not actually
going to be anything unique that gets people to 
be interested in the content that you produce. So
let's just go ahead and prove that because you can 
see here that the status is published and we can
just check in n8n to see what the resulting block 
is. So in n8n you can indeed see that we have a
successful run here at the end. And I'm just 
going to go ahead and jump straight into GitHub
because then we can actually see what the blog 
post looks like. So inside of GitHub I'm going
to go back into that branch and then I'm going 
to do a full refresh and we should see that new
block pop up. So indeed 1 minute ago you can see 
that a new block has been created and we're just
going to go ahead and view that file. So now you 
can see it actually immediately starts with like
a super generic AI generated sentence. The concept 
of using multiple AI agents simultaneously isn't
just clever m dash it's transformative. This is 
so typical. This is like a standard LinkedIn post
that no one cares about. Be honest. If you see a 
sentence like this, don't you already know this is
AI written? This content is uninteresting and I'm 
not going to read further. What's more, just look
at how this paragraph ends. When these agents work 
in parallel, they create a dynamic problem-solving
ecosystem that can handle sophisticated 
tasks far beyond what any single agent could
accomplish alone. Really, I don't even believe 
in that because sometimes it makes sense to use
multiple AI agents in parallel. But for specific 
use cases, you might just need to work with one
AI agent to make sure that you code something 
properly. So this already is a blog post that I
would be super unhappy with because this does not 
represent my expert opinion at all. This is just
a super generic blog post that the AI system made 
up because I did not provide the right input data.
So the lesson of this video is that whether 
you are creating an automation for blog posts,
for LinkedIn reachouts or video creation, anything 
like that, you have to remember that the input
data is way more important than the automation 
or the AI agent itself. And if you follow what I
laid out in this video, then you will be a real 
automator and not a spammer. See you next time.
