Title: AI Agents That Never Forget Code Changes
Source: https://youtu.be/ohjMGnEaBxk
Video ID: ohjMGnEaBxk
----

Everybody wants their AI agents to understand 
their code bases fully. But as you work on your
code and it gets more complex and you make many 
changes, most code agents will completely lose
their way. In this video, I'm going to solve that 
problem for you by showing you how you can create
a workflow that will keep your AI code agents 
always up to date with the latest version of
your codebase, which ensures that they actually 
know what they're doing and will continue to make
you more productive. So, keep watching this 
video and you'll learn how to do this like a
real senior engineer. To prove that this works, 
I'm going to be implementing this workflow from
scratch in one of my own repositories. 
This is the repository that I use for my
own personal blog. And in this repository, 
I've created a claude markdown file. Now,
Claude always looks at this when we're programming 
together, but the thing is these markdown files
contain potentially outdated information about the 
repository. For example, if we check out where it
actually knows how to store the blogs, you'll 
see here that the blog posts seem to be located
in source content blog. Now, let's check out if 
that's actually true. Source content blog. Yes,
it is. The problem is this can change over 
time. Let's say that I or a different engineer
changes this folder name for whatever reason into 
something like AI engineer blog. At this point,
the folder reference will actually be completely 
different than what is in the Claude markdown
file. And if you don't ask Claude to check up on 
whether the markdown file here is still relevant
or not, this is going to be super confusing. Go 
ahead and ask Claude right now, where are blogs
saved in this repo. And this is a super simple 
example. This is not a complex repository at all.
You will see that it will say that blog posts are 
saved in the source content blog directory. And it
thinks that because that is the information that's 
in this outdated claude markdown file even though
I just renamed this folder and Claude is not aware 
of that. And this is already such a simple change.
I only changed the name of a folder. Can you 
imagine how bad your AI agent will get once
this markdown file completely drifts from the 
reality of your codebase? But today we're going
to fix that by creating a GitHub action workflow 
that we can actually run on a recurrence or even
manually to update the claw markdown file. And 
the way that this is going to work is that claude
itself will actually check up on the repository 
and see if its own markdown file is outdated in
any way. So how am I going to approach this? Well, 
all the relevant documentation and examples that
I'll be sharing today will be in a comment 
or the description down below. But for now,
you can just sit back and watch me implement this 
workflow from scratch. But I'm of course going to
be using an AI tool to do that quicker. So I have 
two documentation pieces that I'll be providing to
Claude to help me build this workflow. We actually 
have a Claude code action setup guide here. And
the important part here is that for this workflow, 
I want to actually use my Claude Pro account and
not an API key. So I don't have to pay extra for 
this workflow. And then I'm also going to paste
in some information on the enthropic documentation 
around creating GitHub actions that are powered by
Claude code. So what I'm going to do is I'm going 
to go ahead and copy this entire page. And I can
do that by clicking copy page here instead of just 
selecting the entire web page. this way I don't
include a bunch of junk. Then in Visual Studio 
Code, I'm just going to go ahead and start a new
Claude session. And I'm just going to go ahead 
and paste that documentation. And while that is
running, I'm going to also actually copy over 
the setup guide. So I'm just going to go ahead
and open the raw file by clicking on RAW. Then I'm 
just going to go ahead and copy all of that. I'm
going to put that into Visual Studio Code as 
well. And then I'm going to describe what I'm
actually trying to achieve here. I want to create 
a GitHub actions workflow that on weekly schedule
and manual triggers will use claude code with my 
pro subscription to review the codebase and rework
the claw. ND file so that it is fully accurate. 
The workflow must be carefully constructed and
the prompt used for claude to investigate 
the codebase must be detailed. Therefore,
don't rush the implementation, but do it 
by first creating an extensive to-do list.
This is one of the powerful features of Claude 
Code. You can ask it to create a to-do list and
then it will just actually work out what your 
request is step by step instead of trying to do
everything at once. So, let's actually give this 
a little bit more space so we can see what's going
on. And you can see indeed that we have quite a 
lot of to-dos. So, it's first going to check the
current Claude markdown to actually understand 
what the codebase is like right now and how it
could formulate the prompt in our new workflow. 
Super nice. Now, while Claude is thinking, I just
wanted to let you know that this kind of AI coding 
workflow is just a tip of the iceberg of what I
teach in my AI native engineering community. So, 
if you want to learn how to use AI to accelerate
yourself, you should check us out in the link in 
the description below. Okay, great. It seems I've
created the workflow. And at the bottom here, you 
can see that it wants to test the configuration,
but I'm going to skip that for now because we're 
going to test it manually. Let's actually have a
look at the workflow that it created. In my case, 
and do this in GitHub, but you can probably create
workflows in some other CI/CD tools as well. Gilip 
is just eases for this example. You can see here
that we have this update cla MD YAML file and then 
it does a couple of things. So every Monday this
is triggered but I can also trigger it manually 
and then I actually just has one job. It checks
out the repository, gets the latest code, it 
installs some NodeJS tools, probably because
it needs that for claude code because that's a 
NodeJSbased tool. And then it reads the prompt
file to understand what it should be doing. And it 
actually did create this prompt file here, claude
markdown review prompt. Let's actually have a look 
at that. This is quite a large prompt as well. And
the analysis consists of a couple different steps. 
checking the project overview, analyzing the text
stack, maybe we added some new dependencies or a 
new database, right? Verification of all of the
commands because maybe we changed the way that 
the product is built, checking out the directory
structure, which is great. That would actually 
solve that uh blog change that we covered just
a couple of minutes ago. And then of course some 
other steps included here as well. And in my case,
this is already based on my existing project 
which is created with Astro. in your situation,
you know, obviously this file will look pretty 
different because Claude will first understand
your codebase to create this kind of review 
prompt. So, this looks good for me. And then if
we actually check out the workflow in more detail, 
you'll see that it will create a new branch, which
is important because it's going to actually change 
that markdown file and it will need to push that
code to my GitHub repository. Right? And now, if 
we scroll down a little bit, you can see here that
indeed we have the pro subscription token that 
it will use to call claude code. And then it will
actually paste in the review prompt context with 
a couple of additional instructions here. Makes
sense to me. And then there's a timeout. There's 
a maximum amount of turns so it doesn't go off
the rails and use up all of my pro limits, right? 
That's good as well. And then what it does in the
end is of course we assume here that Claude code 
creates a modified version of the clock markdown
file. And then at the very end you can see here 
that that change is being added with a commit.
And then that is being pushed and a pull request 
will be created. so that I as the code maintainer
can just double check it and then accept it 
into the codebase and then together with the
new Claude file every developer that's working on 
my project will be able to actually use AI coding
effectively again because the Claude file will 
be completely up to date with the latest changes
so in theory that sounds quite nice and let's just 
go ahead and try out this workflow I do think this
is going to be failing at the beginning because 
we have not added the secret yet but let's just
go ahead and see if the syntax is even correct 
in the first place now I am going to actually
revert one change here because I don't really care 
about renaming this block file at the moment. We
will actually be renaming this folder at the 
end to check if the Claude mark files update
successfully. But for now, it's totally fine if 
we just leave it as is. And then I'm just going to
go ahead and commit all of these workflow related 
files and say Claude MD update workflow. Then I'm
going to go ahead and commit that. And let's go 
ahead and check out what now happens in GitHub.
So in GitHub, you can now see that under actions, 
we have this update cla documentation workflow and
I'm going to go ahead and run this manually. Now 
I do expect that it's going to throw an error as
I said before because we do not actually have the 
ooth token set up yet, but at least we know that
the syntax will be correct. So let's go ahead and 
see how far it gets and then check out where it
errors out. Yep, that makes total sense. We did 
not actually add this token yet. So let's go
ahead and ask Claude how we're actually supposed 
to be creating that token. So what I need to do
is I need to run claude setup token to get my OOFF 
token. So I'm just going to go ahead and go back
into Visual Studio Code and generate that token 
in Visual Studio Code. The moment that I paste
this and I press enter, it's actually going to 
open up a new window and I have to authorize the
application. And at this point I will actually 
see the secret in Visual Studio Code. But of
course I don't want to share it with you. So 
I'll copy it and then I'll be back with you. So,
just to make sure you understand what I just did 
in the background, I went to settings. Then I went
to the action section under my secrets and then I 
added that Olaf token under this name. Of course,
I couldn't show you that because I don't want you 
to use my Claude account. But now, what we can do
is we can go back into the action and trigger 
it again. And this time, it should work because
we added the token. After trying it out again, I 
still get an error related to adding this ID token
write permission. So, I'm just going to go ahead 
and edit this workflow manually. And you can see
in here that this is a great example where AI 
code is helping me along the way because it's
creating this workflow file for me, but it's not 
perfect and I'm going to have to fix some things
myself. So that's no problem. I'm just going to go 
ahead and add the permission in here. So now the
workflow is running and we're actually getting 
somewhere. As you can see here, it's going to
conduct a comprehensive analysis of the codebase. 
And as we scroll down, you will see that it
creates a bunch of to-dos like reading the current 
file, analyzing the project, and then seeing if
there's any discrepancies, and then rewrite in the 
Claude markdown file as it finishes up. Now, this
is going to take a little while to complete, but 
actually I didn't really change anything that it
should check for, right? As you might remember, I 
reverted the change of renaming the block folder.
So, let's actually go ahead and introduce a small 
change that we expected to pick up when we run
this workflow. So in Visual Studio Code as a test, 
let's see what we want to change here. I think
that it could be a challenge to rename this folder 
because as you saw in the very beginning, this is
already what made Claude code trip up. So let's 
go ahead and rename it to AI engineer block. I'm
going to commit this. And now I expect that the 
model is actually going to pick up on this change
and rewrite the reference in the Claude markdown 
file. So here we go. I'm going to say folder name
change test because I want to revert it later 
on of course and then I'm going to push that
commit and then we're actually going to rerun the 
workflow on that latest change and see if it picks
up on it. So now you can see that it's starting 
to actually update that Claude markdown document
here because you can see here at blog post it 
says it's actually located in source content AI
engineer blog not source content blog. So, what 
we're going to do now is wait until it's done and
then check out the pull request that it creates. 
So, now it's created a new pull request in a
special branch that points to test workflow. And 
you can see that indeed it was the GitHub actions
bot that created this commit. Now, let's scroll 
down and find the bit that it changed where it
now points to the correct blog folder. Under the 
content management header, you can now see that
blog posts are no longer located in source content 
blog, but actually located in source content AI
engineer blog. Very nice. So you can see here that 
it made that change based on the commit that we
created as a test before. Of course, it's changed 
much more than that, but you will see that as you
iterate on this, it will become more stable over 
time and only include the actual relevant changes
that your engineering team made. And you can run 
this every day, every week, maybe just manually
when you think it's necessary, depending on how 
often you make changes to your codebase. So now
I am in that special little branch and I'm going 
to go ahead and ask the same question I did at
the beginning of the video. Where are our blogs 
saved? And now you will see that without actually
checking out the code repository, it will actually 
immediately respond with saying that they're saved
in source content AI engineer blog, which is 
absolutely correct. So this is really powerful.
You can see here how we created this little proof 
of concept in 15 minutes, but if you iterate on
this for a couple of hours, this strategy is ready 
even for code bases at an enterprise level. If you
want to learn more real AI coding strategies 
like this, then you should definitely check
out my AI native engineer community in the link 
in the description below. And I hope to see you
